Add pretrained models guide (#5913)
Codecademy/docs: content/pytorch/concepts/loading-pretrained-models/loading-pretrained-models.md

---
Title: 'Loading Pre-trained Models'
Description: 'Initializes a model architecture with pre-trained weights learned from a large dataset, enabling transfer learning or direct inference.'
Subjects:
  - 'Machine Learning'
Tags:

>   - 'Machine Learning'
>   - 'Models'
>   - 'Neural Networks'
>   - 'Deep Learning'
>   - 'TensorFlow'
>   - 'PyTorch'
>   - 'Datasets'
>   - 'Scikit-learn'
>   - 'AI'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - 'AI'
  - 'Datasets'
  - 'Deep Learning'
  - 'Machine Learning'
  - 'Models'
  - 'Neural Networks'
  - 'PyTorch'
  - 'Scikit-learn'
  - 'TensorFlow'
```

---
Title: Loading Pretrained Models
Description: 'A brief description.' # Required; ideally under 150 characters and starts with a noun (used in search engine results and content previews)
Subjects:
  - Machine Learning
Tags:
  - Machine Learning
  - Models
  - Neural Networks
  - Deep Learning
  - TensorFlow
  - PyTorch
  - Datasets
  - Scikit-learn
  - AI
CatalogContent: # Please use course/path landing page slugs, rather than linking to individual content items. If listing multiple items, please put the most relevant one first
  - 'learn-example-course'

>   - 'paths/example-path'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Title: 'Loading Pre-trained Models'
Description: 'Initializes a model architecture with pre-trained weights learned from a large dataset, enabling transfer learning or direct inference.'
Subjects:
  - 'Machine Learning'
Tags:
  - 'Machine Learning'
  - 'Models'
  - 'Neural Networks'
  - 'Deep Learning'
  - 'TensorFlow'
  - 'PyTorch'
  - 'Datasets'
  - 'Scikit-learn'
  - 'AI'
CatalogContent: 
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
```

---

> **Pretrained models** are a foundational concept in machine learning, allowing developers and researchers to leverage models that have already been trained on extensive datasets. This approach accelerates development and improves accuracy by transferring knowledge from existing solutions to new tasks. In PyTorch, loading pretrained models is straightforward and provides access to many state-of-the-art models via the torchvision library and other community-supported sources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Loading pre-trained models** is a foundational process in machine learning that enables developers and researchers to utilize models already trained on extensive datasets. This practice speeds development and enhances accuracy by reusing learned features from existing solutions for new tasks. In PyTorch, loading pre-trained models is simple and accessible, offering a range of state-of-the-art models through libraries like `torchvision` and other community-contributed sources.
```

This guide introduces the concept of loading pretrained models in PyTorch, explains the syntax, and provides an example to demonstrate its usage.

## Syntax

To load a pretrained model in PyTorch, use the following syntax:

```python
from torchvision import models

# Load a pretrained model
model = models.<model_name>(pretrained=True)
```

- `<model_name>`: Replace this with the desired model name (e.g., `resnet18`, `vgg16`).

> - `pretrained=True`: Specifies that the model should load pretrained weights.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `<model_name>`: The name of the model to load (e.g., `resnet18`, `vgg16`, `mobilenet_v2`, etc.). It must be a valid model name from the `torchvision.models` library.
- `pretrained`: If `True`, the function loads a model initialized with weights pre-trained on the ImageNet dataset. If `False`, it loads a model with random weights.
```

## Example

### Using a Pretrained ResNet-18 for Inference

> This example demonstrates loading a pretrained ResNet-18 model and using it for image classification.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates how to load a pre-trained ResNet-18 model and use it for image classification:
```

```python
import torch
from torchvision import models, transforms
from PIL import Image

# Load the pretrained ResNet-18 model
model = models.resnet18(pretrained=True)
model.eval()  # Set the model to evaluation mode

# Define a transform for preprocessing the image
preprocess = transforms.Compose([
    transforms.Resize(256),
    transforms.CenterCrop(224),
    transforms.ToTensor(),
    transforms.Normalize(mean=[0.485, 0.456, 0.406], std=[0.229, 0.224, 0.225]),
])

# Load an image
image_path = "path/to/your/image.jpg"
image = Image.open(image_path).convert("RGB")
input_tensor = preprocess(image).unsqueeze(0)  # Add batch dimension

# Perform inference
with torch.no_grad():
    output = model(input_tensor)

# Get the predicted class
predicted_class = torch.argmax(output[0]).item()
print(f"Predicted Class: {predicted_class}")
```

### Fine-Tuning a Pretrained Model

> Here is an example of modifying a pretrained ResNet-18 model for a custom classification task:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to modify a pre-trained ResNet-18 model for a custom classification task:
```

> ```python

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```py
```

import torch.nn as nn

# Load pretrained model
model = models.resnet18(pretrained=True)

# Modify the final fully connected layer to match the number of output classes
num_classes = 10  # Adjust based on your dataset
model.fc = nn.Linear(model.fc.in_features, num_classes)

# Define loss and optimizer
criterion = nn.CrossEntropyLoss()
optimizer = torch.optim.Adam(model.parameters(), lr=0.001)

> # The model is now ready for training on your dataset

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
import torch.nn as nn
from torchvision import models

# Load the pretrained ResNet-18 model
model = models.resnet18(pretrained=True)

# Modify the final fully connected layer to match the number of output classes
num_classes = 10  # Replace with the number of classes in your custom dataset
model.fc = nn.Linear(model.fc.in_features, num_classes)

# Define loss and optimizer
criterion = nn.CrossEntropyLoss()              # Loss function for classification
optimizer = torch.optim.Adam(model.parameters(), lr=0.001)  # Optimizer for training

# The model is now ready for fine-tuning on your dataset
```
